>> Kyle Simpson: All right moving
right along let's talk about lists.
And actually right off the bat I need
to clarify we're not really only
talking about arrays.
Although these kind of operations are
almost always illustrated using arrays,
we are actually talking
about data structures.
The functional programming concept
of doing operations is not limited
to I can only do a map across an array or
I can only do a filter across an array.
These sorts of operations, like maps and
filters and reduces, are actually
generalized operations that should be able
to be performed across any data structure.
It just happens to be,
especially in JavaScript,
that it's super convenient to
illustrate in the context of arrays.
So for now we are gonna look at
them in the context of arrays, but
then we're gonna circle back and
we're gonna talk about this
larger concept of adapting these
ideas to general data structures.
Essentially what we are saying here is
that there are operations that we've
learned how to perform on
single discrete values.
And now what we'd like to
is adapt those operations,
lift those operations, so that they
work across a collection of values.
There's a scary sounding functional
programming term here that
is heavily related and
it is called functor.
A functor is a value, and by value I
mean could be a collection of values,
it is a value over which those
values in it can be mapped.
So if we talk about an array since we
know we can call dot map on an array,
it's a functor.
In fact, any data structure for
which we have identified and
defined a map operation
that constitutes or
gives the characteristic that
it behaves as a functor.
And I only use that word to demystify
these words, not because I want
you to go around, start talking
about functor this and functor that.
But rather that if you
ever hear that word,
I don't want you to be
scared by that word.
You just need to think essentially
that's a value that I can map
an operation across, okay?
So let's talk about map.
What is map?
It is fundamentally
a transformation operation.
Meaning that we're gonna to take
the values in some collection and
perform a conversion on each of them.
And remember that a data structure doesn't
imply necessarily multiple values.
A single value in a single data structure
can be that functor idea can be mapped
over and that's still entirely valid.
It's just that we often illustrated
in terms of lists of values like I've
depicted here.
So the transformation, it's important to
note that it's not happening in place.
For it to be the functor, for it to
behave according to these principles,
it has to be a pure function.
It can't be mutating this stuff.
Your map transformation has to be
producing a new data structure.
With the values having been transformed
as they are projected to the new data
structure, okay?
So if we start out with
an array of four numbers, and
then we map that to a new array of
different numbers that have been added or
subtracted from or something,
that's a mapping operation.
The key takeaway here mentally
is that map always results
in the same kind of data
structure as it started with.
You start with an array,
map is gonna give you another array.
You start with an object,
map is gonna give you another object.
If you start with a monad,
map is gonna give you another monad, okay?
The map always produces a transformed
values but the same data structure,
same kind,
same shape of data structure, okay?
That's a key takeaway.
So how would we implement a very simple
map transform kind of function for
ourselves?
Well, let's say that I had
a list of strings, and
I wanted to turn it into a list of objects
where those strings have been included.
I can have a function called makeRecord.
And makeRecord is a pure function
because it takes in a name and
it produces a new function back.
And I'm going to use asterisks on that
pure, because we are technically doing
an impurity with the unique random
number generation or something.
But from the perspective of passing in
a value and getting back an object,
it's returning a value rather than
the mutating something for us, okay?
So if I do a map over the array "Kyle" and
"Susan" with makeRecord as our map
function, you'll notice that what I'm
basically saying is call mapper with every
original element, and whatever it returns,
stick it in the new data structure.
That new less that we
then return line ten, and
that's how we end up
with an array of objects.
We have not mutated the original
array of Kyle and Susan.
>> Kyle Simpson: Because arrays are the
most common ways that people think about
these operations, there is built
in into the array prototype,
the equivalent of these operations.
So we have a .map on the array prototype.
I can take that makeRecord and
call it with my array directly with
the array.map and
use the mapper as MakeRecord.
And we'll end up with
the same kind of thing,
an array with those kind of objects.
So think about any sort of source value,
any sort of conversion or
transformation that you wanna do on that
value to project the new value from it.
We could take a number and
map it with some sort of arithmetic
operation and come up with a new number.
We could take a string and map it with
some kind of string concatenation,
where we're prefixing or
suffixing the string.
We could take a string and
map it with a two lowercase or
a two uppercase transformation.
In which case we're making
all the strings uppercase.
We could take a single promise and
map it into a return promise.
We could take a string and
turn it into a promise.
Any sort of source value with any
sort of transformation can be mapped.
And any collection of those
values can be mapped.
One thing that is also important to
point out is that the idea of map,
the idea of the other ones that we'll
look at is that we are using the same
transformation across all of
the values in the data structure.
So it's not the case that we do, some of
them we map the numbers to strings, and
some of them, we map the strings
into promises, or whatever.
That would be two separate distinct
map operations across sub sections
of our data structure.
We pass in one mapper function and
it does one set of things.
It is possible for your mapper function to
have some sort of if statement logic in
it, some branching logic in it
where it returns different things,
but that's a sort of polymorphic
way of thinking about it.
And even though you might be able to
do that I'm gonna strongly caution
that a mapper function
should do one thing.
It should turn strings into numbers or
strings into promises or functions into
numbers or something like that instead
of doing a bunch of polymorphic.
And that's just a fancy way of
saying branching based upon types.
It shouldn't do a bunch of different
things based on different input types.
That's generally not a great idea.
Again the key take away here is anytime I
start out with a collection of values like
an array or an object.
A collection of values and
I wanna perform a common operation for
all of the values that transforms them
into some other kind of value and
come up with a new data structure.
Then what I'm pattern matching in my
head against is that's called a map.